[Music]
on August 21st 2017 the shadow of the
moon will pass from the west coast to
the east coast of the US our blue sky
will turn black as night and fill with
stars and there will be a hole in the
sky where the Sun used to be surrounded
by the fiery ring of the Sun's corona a
total eclipse of the Sun this will truly
be a historic event accounts of solar
eclipses date way back in the written
record the early Mesopotamians wrote
that the Sun was put to shame during the
solar eclipse of the 14th century BCE
and it may have started the Sun worship
of the Egyptian pharaoh akhenaten
ancient chinese astrologers paid with
their lives if they failed to predict a
solar eclipse and portend the fate of
their emperors whose symbol was the Sun
the earliest date of a specific event in
human history a battle between the
armies of Lydia and media occurred on
May 28 535 BCE when a solar eclipse
caused the soldiers to lay down their
arms and declare a truce so how does it
happen during a total solar eclipse the
moon moves between the Earth and the Sun
when this happens the disk of the moon
appears to perfectly cover the disk of
the Sun even though the Sun is much
larger than the moon but how is this
possible the Sun is 400 times bigger
than the moon but by sheer coincidence
the moon is 390 times closer to earth
size and distance cancel each other out
so that the Moon and Sun appear to be
almost exactly the same size every time
the moon orbits the earth once every
twenty seven point three days it has to
pass between the Earth and the Sun a
stage called the new moon phase and
every time it passes the new moon has a
chance to block out the Sun most of the
time the moon passes a little above or a
little below the Sun but if they align
perfectly the shadow of the moon will
make a narrow path across earth and
those in the shadows will see a total
solar eclipse just like on the night
side of the earth the sky during a total
eclipse is black and filled with stars
but while the moon perfectly covers the
surface of the Sun it doesn't block out
the sun's outer atmosphere its corona
which appears as a fiery ring around the
dark disk of the Moon solar eclipses
occur several times a year but most
often they are partial eclipses where
the moon doesn't quite line up with the
Sun and when the Moon and Sun are
perfectly aligned the moon is usually
too far from Earth on its orbit to
completely cover the Sun creating an
klipsch during an annular or partial
eclipse the sky remains bright even on
those rare occasions of a total eclipse
the moon's shadow is most likely to fall
on the 70% of earth that is covered by
water and few people if any will see it
the eclipse of 2017 will be remarkable
on a larger scale because the moon is
slowly moving away from Earth if a furry
ancestor of ours had bothered to look up
during solar eclipse 100 million years
ago it wouldn't have seen the fiery
corona of the Sun it would have just
been dark eventually the moon will have
moved too far from Earth to completely
cover the disk of the Sun it is only
during our little wink of Earth's
history that the moon is at just the
right distance to cause a total solar
eclipse yet not blocked the Sun's corona
so on August 21st 2017 when the moon
exactly lines up with the Sun and the
moon is close enough to the earth its
shadow will cross the US and if you
happen to be in its narrow path you will
witness one of the most awe-inspiring
sights in the universe but as incredible
as this event will be total eclipses are
one of the most dangerous as well only
specially tinted filters specifically
designed to observe the Sun should be
used the Eclipse might put the Sun to
shame but even a shamed Sun can
seriously damage your eyes
you
[Music]